Context is not a "state management" tool. It's a Dependency Injection mechanism, whose only purpose is to make a single value accessible to a nested tree of React components. It's up to you to decide what that value is, and how it's created. Typically, that's done using data from React component state, ie, useState and useReducer. So, you're actually doing all the "state management" yourself - Context just gives you a way to pass it down the tree.

When to use?
	if I know state rarely changes. Instances like user authentication, app theme (dark, light, or whatever), something to that effect.

- Theming
- User Authentication
- Multingual Support (i18n)

**The thing to watch out for with context is that every component that depends on the context will re-render every time the context object changes.**

Context is a Dependency Injection tool for a single value, used to pass it down without prop drilling

Redux is a tool for predictable state management outside the React tree. ("Redux is context plus extra")



`document.getElementById('⚛️')` 

The moral of the story is to not over-engineer. mosha marte kaman!

flux state management pattern -> useReducer -> Redux


https://kentcdodds.com/blog/should-i-usestate-or-usereducer

https://devtrium.com/posts/how-to-use-react-usereducer-hook 

### **Better Performance**

- Updates to the context trigger re-renders only in the components that consume the context, not in all child components (if used correctly).



```js
export const GiftContext = createContext();
```

```js
<GiftContext.Provider value="Golden Ring">
	<Father />
	<Aunty />
</GiftContext.Provider>
```

```js
const gift = useContext(GiftContext);
```


React Dev Tool Extension