## Internet, HTTP/HTTPS, API

1. **Enter URL**: You type the website’s address (URL) into the browser.
2. **DNS Resolution**: The browser converts the domain (e.g., `www.example.com`) into an IP address using DNS (Domain Name System).
3. **TCP/IP Connection**: A connection is established between your device and the server using TCP/IP protocols.
4. **HTTP Request**: The browser sends an HTTP request to the server to retrieve the web page.
5. **Server Response**: The server processes the request and sends back an HTTP response with the web page’s content (HTML, CSS, JS).
6. **Rendering**: The browser parses and renders the HTML, applies styles (CSS), and runs JavaScript to display the page.
7. **Interactive Content**: JavaScript may further interact with the server for dynamic content or user actions.

The result: The website loads and is ready for you to interact with.

[[How Browser Gets The Data]]

A web server application is a software that handles requests from clients (typically web browsers) and serves web content (like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and images) to be displayed on the client’s device. 

Apache, Nginx, LiteSpeed, and Microsoft IIS.

[[API]]

## JSON

A way of structuring data.

JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a lightweight data-interchange format that's easy for both humans to read and write, and for machines to parse and generate. It's commonly used in web applications for transmitting data between a server and a client, especially because it’s language-independent and can be parsed by most programming languages.

### JSON in APIs

APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) often use JSON to structure data sent between the server and the client. When a client (like a mobile app or a web browser) requests data from an API, the server responds with JSON-formatted data. This format is ideal because it’s compact and easy to parse, making it efficient for transferring structured data over the web.


```js

const user ...

console.log(user);
JSON.stringify(user);

```

 https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/ 
 
 https://brightdata.com/blog/how-tos/fetch-api-nodejs#:~:text=The%20Fetch%20API%20represents%20the,this%20guide%20is%20all%20about.


https://blog.logrocket.com/fetch-api-node-js/